>> Nina Zakharenko: For now we're gonna
talk about loops and control statements.
We gonna talk about for
loops in Python and if else and else if.
And just kind of as an aside, I'm gonna
through the final exercise first.
And then I will come
back to this section and
go over while loops and
break and continue.
So if you wanna stay afterwards for
that, you're welcome to.
>> Nina Zakharenko: But loops and
control statements in Python.
So if you've done Java or
JavaScript or C++,
you might have seen some for
loops that look like this, right?
For and then i is zero,
you're defining the condition
that we're looping until,
which is i is less than five, and
then defining the operation you're
doing to meet the condition.
For loops in Python
are a lot nicer than this.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's
say we had a list of colors.
I can just loop over for color in colors
and print out the value of the item.
That's a for loop in Python.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's say
my colors were red, green, blue.
I can say for color in colors,
so that's kind of a temporary,
color is a temporary variable that exists
in the context of the for loop and
each item in that list is gonna
get assigned a color in turn.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And then we go through
each one and print out red, green, blue.
>> Student: So that word color
could've been any word, right?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yes,
any variable name that you decide.
>> Student: Cuz you're kind
of instantiating it or
making it available at that point.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah.
>> Student: Okay.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And then something
kind of interesting here is that
this isn't a function,
there's no scope here, right?
And so color will exist in your scope
as the last color it was set to.
So something to keep an eye on.
And just like with functions,
it's the indentation that defines
what belongs to the for loop.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If we want to
go through a sequence of numbers,
there's a function in Python called range.
And if we call it, we'll see this type.
So range implicitly starts with zero and
ends at the provided number.
And that provided number,
it's not inclusive of.
So this will give us a range
of numbers from 0 to 4.
But Python is kind of smart about it,
doesn't generate that whole list at once.
As we go through the loop,
it kind of generates it as we need it.
If we want to see what is
generated in this list, or
in the range function under the hood,
we can pass it to list, and
that will immediately
evaluate all of those.
So just like before,
I can loop through a number
in the range and print out the number.
And this will print, 0, 1,
2, 3, 4, not inclusive of 5.
For range, I can provide two values.
The first is where to start,
the second is where to end.
The start is inclusive, so in this range 1
is included in the numbers but 5 is not.
5 is exclusive.
Okay, so we got 1234.
>> Nina Zakharenko: There's one other
value that you can pass to range.
And that is a step argument, so that's,
how many numbers should I skip over by?
So let's say I start at 1 and
end at 7 and do a step of 2, and
you can also kind of explicitly
name this optionally.
In that way it's a little
bit clearer to read.
What do you think this will print out?
>> Student: 1, 3, 5.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Oops.
So in Python 2, print was not a function,
it was a statement.
And every once in a while
it catches me too.
No, I'm sorry, range does not take
keyword arguments, it's just an order.
So,
>> Nina Zakharenko: My apologies for that.
Range takes three arguments,
and they're just positional.